OKi 30 mg suppositories

Indications
Why is Oki used? What is it for?
OKI belongs to the category of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).

Symptomatic and short-term treatment of inflammatory conditions associated with pain such as those affecting the musculoskeletal system, postoperative pain, and otitis.

Contraindications
When Oki must not be used
OKi 30 mg suppositories are contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to ketoprofen or to any of the excipients.

Ketoprofen is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity reactions such as bronchospasm, asthma attacks, rhinitis, urticaria, or other allergic reactions to ketoprofen, acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), or other NSAIDs. Severe anaphylactic reactions, rarely fatal, have been observed in these patients (see section adverse effects).

Ketoprofen is contraindicated in the following cases:

severe heart failure
active peptic ulcer/bleeding or history of recurrent peptic ulcer/bleeding (two or more confirmed episodes of bleeding or ulceration);
history of gastrointestinal perforation or bleeding following previous NSAID therapy;
bleeding diathesis
severe hepatic impairment
severe renal impairment
leukopenia or thrombocytopenia
severe coagulation disorders
ulcerative colitis
gastritis
previous history of gastrointestinal bleeding, ulceration or perforation, or chronic dyspepsia
third trimester of pregnancy (see section "Pregnancy and breastfeeding") Ketoprofen is contraindicated in cases of proctitis or a history of rectal bleeding. Children under 6 years of age.

Precautions for use
What to know before taking Oki
Undesirable effects can be minimized by using the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible duration of treatment required to control symptoms.

Caution should be exercised in patients taking concomitant medications that may increase the risk of ulceration or bleeding, including

oral corticosteroids, anticoagulants such as warfarin, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or antiplatelet agents such as acetylsalicylic acid (see section "Interactions").

Concomitant use of OKi 30 mg suppositories with other NSAIDs should be avoided, including selective cyclo-oxygenase-2 inhibitors.

Gastrointestinal ulceration, perforation or bleeding: cases of gastrointestinal ulceration, perforation or bleeding, which can be fatal, have been reported during treatment with all NSAIDs, at any time, with or without warning symptoms or prior history of severe gastrointestinal events.

Some epidemiological evidence suggests that ketoprofen may be associated with a higher risk of severe gastrointestinal toxicity compared with other NSAIDs, especially at high doses (see also section "Contraindications").

The risk of gastrointestinal ulcer, perforation or bleeding is higher with increased doses of NSAIDs, in patients with a history of ulcer, especially if complicated by bleeding or perforation, and in the elderly (see section "Contraindications"). These patients should start treatment at the lowest possible dose. Combined therapy with protective agents (e.g. misoprostol or proton pump inhibitors) should be considered for these patients and for those who require concomitant low-dose acetylsalicylic acid or other drugs that may increase the risk of gastrointestinal events (see below and section "Interactions").

Patients with a history of gastrointestinal toxicity, particularly if elderly, should report any unusual abdominal symptoms (especially gastrointestinal bleeding) particularly in the initial stages of treatment.

Elderly: elderly patients have an increased frequency of adverse reactions to NSAIDs, especially gastrointestinal bleeding and perforations, which can be fatal (see "Dose, method and time of administration").

When gastrointestinal bleeding or ulceration occurs in patients taking OKi 30 mg suppositories, treatment must be discontinued.

Serious skin reactions, some of them fatal, such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis, have been reported very rarely in association with the use of NSAIDs (see section "Side effects"). Patients appear to be at higher risk of these reactions at the beginning of treatment, with onset occurring in most cases within the first month of therapy.

Discontinue ketoprofen at the first appearance of skin rash, mucosal lesions, or any other sign of hypersensitivity.

Several clinical studies and epidemiological data suggest that the use of some NSAIDs (especially at high doses and in long-term treatments) may be associated with an increased risk of arterial thromboembolic events (e.g. myocardial infarction or stroke). There are insufficient data to exclude that ketoprofen is also associated with these risks.

Patients with active or previous peptic ulcer.

NSAIDs should be administered with caution in patients with a history of gastrointestinal disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease) as these conditions may be exacerbated (see section "Side effects").

At the start of treatment, renal function should be carefully monitored in patients with heart failure, cirrhosis and nephrosis, in those on diuretic therapy or with chronic renal insufficiency, especially if elderly. In these patients, administration of ketoprofen may cause a reduction in renal blood flow due to inhibition of prostaglandins and lead to renal decompensation.

Caution is advised in patients with a history of hypertension and/or mild to moderate congestive heart failure as cases of fluid retention and edema associated with NSAID therapy have been reported.

As with other NSAIDs, in the presence of an infectious disease, the anti-inflammatory, analgesic and antipyretic properties of ketoprofen may mask common symptoms of infection progression, such as fever.

In patients with abnormal liver function tests or with a history of liver disease, transaminase levels should be monitored periodically, especially in case of long-term treatment. Rare cases of jaundice and hepatitis have been reported with the use of ketoprofen.

In patients with impaired renal function, administration of ketoprofen should be carried out with particular caution considering the essentially renal elimination of the drug.

Patients with asthma associated with chronic rhinitis, chronic sinusitis and/or nasal polyposis are more exposed to the risk of allergy to acetylsalicylic acid and/or NSAIDs than the rest of the population.

Administration of this medicine may help trigger asthmatic attacks or bronchospasms, especially in subjects allergic to acetylsalicylic acid or NSAIDs (see section "Contraindications").

In some pediatric patients treated with ketoprofen lysine salt, gastrointestinal bleeding, occasionally severe, and peptic ulcer have been observed; therefore, the product should be administered under close medical supervision, who must evaluate the necessary dosing regimen each time.

It is not known that the drug causes habituation or dependence.

Interactions
Which medicines or foods can modify the effect of Oki
"Inform your doctor or pharmacist if you have recently taken any other medicines, including those without a prescription."

Combinations not recommended
Other NSAIDs (including selective cyclo-oxygenase-2 inhibitors) and high-dose salicylates: increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration.
Anticoagulants (heparin and warfarin): NSAIDs may enhance the effects of anticoagulants such as warfarin; increased risk of bleeding (see section "Precautions for use"). If concomitant administration cannot be avoided, patients must be closely monitored.
Antiplatelet agents (ticlopidine, clopidogrel): increased risk of bleeding (see section "Precautions for use"). If co-administration is unavoidable, patients must be closely monitored.
Lithium: risk of increased plasma lithium levels, sometimes up to toxic levels due to reduced renal excretion of lithium. If necessary, plasma lithium levels should be carefully monitored and the lithium dosage adjusted during and after NSAID therapy.
Methotrexate at doses greater than 15 mg/week or more: increased risk of hematologic toxicity of methotrexate, especially when administered at high doses (>15 mg/week), possibly related to displacement from methotrexate-binding proteins and decreased renal clearance.
Combinations with other drugs requiring caution:
Diuretics: patients taking diuretics and, among these, those particularly dehydrated are at greater risk of developing renal insufficiency secondary to the reduction in renal blood flow caused by the inhibition of prostaglandins. Such patients must be rehydrated before starting co-administration and renal function must be closely monitored (see "Precautions for use") after initiation of treatment. NSAIDs may reduce the effect of diuretics.
ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II antagonists: in patients with impaired renal function (for example dehydrated and elderly patients) co-administration of an ACE inhibitor or an angiotensin II antagonist and agents capable of inhibiting cyclo-oxygenase may cause a further deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Therefore the combination should be administered with caution, especially in elderly patients. Patients should be adequately hydrated and monitoring of renal function after starting concomitant therapy should be considered.
Methotrexate at doses lower than 15 mg/week: during the first weeks of the combination, perform weekly monitoring of the complete blood count. Increase the frequency in the presence of even a slight worsening of renal function or in the elderly.
Corticosteroids: increased risk of gastrointestinal ulceration or bleeding (see "Precautions for use").
Pentoxifylline: increased risk of bleeding. More frequent clinical checks and monitoring of bleeding time.
Probenecid: co-administration of probenecid may markedly reduce the plasma clearance of ketoprofen.
Combinations with other drugs to be considered
Antihypertensive drugs (beta-blockers, ACE inhibitors, diuretics): NSAIDs may reduce the effect of antihypertensive drugs. Risk of reduced antihypertensive potency (NSAIDs inhibit vasodilatory prostaglandins).
Thrombolytic agents: increased risk of bleeding.
Antiplatelet agents and Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs): increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding (see "Precautions for use").
Phenytoin and Sulfonamides: since ketoprofen is highly protein-bound, it may be necessary to reduce the dosage of phenytoin or sulfonamides administered concomitantly.
Cyclosporine, tacrolimus: risk of additional nephrotoxic effects, particularly in the elderly.

Warnings
It is important to know that:
The use of NSAIDs may impair fertility and is not recommended in women who are planning to become pregnant, as is the use of any drug that inhibits prostaglandin and cyclo-oxygenase synthesis. NSAID administration should be discontinued in women who have fertility problems or who are undergoing investigations of fertility.

As with all non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, the use of ketoprofen in patients with bronchial asthma or with an allergic diathesis may precipitate an asthmatic crisis.

In patients with impaired renal function, administration of ketoprofen should be carried out with particular caution considering the essentially renal elimination of the drug.

Medicines such as OKi 30 mg suppositories may be associated with a small increased risk of heart attack ("myocardial infarction") or stroke. Any risk is more likely with high doses and prolonged treatments. Do not exceed the recommended dose or duration of treatment.

If you have heart problems, or a history of stroke, or think you may be at risk for these conditions (for example if you have high blood pressure, diabetes or high cholesterol, or you smoke), you must discuss your therapy with your doctor or pharmacist.

In case of visual disturbances, such as blurred vision, treatment must be discontinued.

Pregnancy and breastfeeding
"Ask your doctor and pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine."

Pregnancy
Inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis may adversely affect pregnancy and/or embryonic/fetal development.

Data from epidemiological studies suggest an increased risk of miscarriage and of cardiac malformation and gastroschisis after the use of a prostaglandin synthesis inhibitor in early pregnancy. The absolute risk of cardiovascular malformations increases from less than 1% to about 1.5%. It is believed that the risk increases with dose and duration of therapy. In animal studies, administration of prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors has shown an increase in pre- and post-implantation loss and in embryo-fetal mortality.

Furthermore, an increased incidence of various malformations, including cardiovascular ones, has been observed in animals to which prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors were administered during the organogenesis period.

During the first and second trimesters of pregnancy, ketoprofen should not be administered unless strictly necessary.

If ketoprofen is used by a woman who intends to become pregnant, or during the first and second trimesters of pregnancy, the dose and duration of treatment must be kept as low as possible.

During the third trimester of pregnancy, all prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors may expose the fetus to:

cardiopulmonary toxicity (with premature closure of the ductus arteriosus and pulmonary hypertension);
renal dysfunction, which may progress to renal failure with oligo-hydramnios;
the mother and the newborn, at the end of pregnancy, to:

possible prolongation of bleeding time, and an antiplatelet effect that may occur even at very low doses;
inhibition of uterine contractions resulting in delayed or prolonged labor
Consequently, ketoprofen is contraindicated during the third trimester of pregnancy.

Breastfeeding
There is no information available on the excretion of ketoprofen in human milk. Ketoprofen is not recommended during breastfeeding.
Effects on the ability to drive and use machines
If drowsiness, dizziness or convulsions occur following administration of ketoprofen, the patient should avoid driving or using machines.
Keep this medicine out of the reach of children

Dosage and method of use
How to use Oki: Posology
Since the recommended dosage must be between 1 and 2 mg/kg per administration, the following dosing schedule is recommended:

children aged not less than 6 years with body weight under 30 kg: 1 suppository 2–3 times a day.

Undesirable effects can be minimized by using the shortest possible duration of treatment required to control symptoms (see section PRECAUTIONS FOR USE).

Overdose
What to do if you have taken an excessive dose of Oki
Cases of overdose with doses greater than 2.5 g of ketoprofen have been reported. In most cases, the observed symptoms have been benign and limited to lethargy, drowsiness, nausea, vomiting and epigastric pain.

There are no specific antidotes in case of ketoprofen overdose. In case of suspected massive overdose, gastric lavage is recommended and symptomatic and supportive treatment should be instituted to compensate for dehydration, monitor urinary output and correct acidosis, if necessary.

In case of renal insufficiency, hemodialysis may be useful to remove the drug from the body.

In the event of accidental intake/ingestion of an excessive dose of OKi 30 mg suppositories, inform your doctor immediately or go to the nearest hospital.

If you have any doubts about the use of OKi 30 mg suppositories, consult your doctor or pharmacist.

Side effects
What are the side effects of Oki
Like all medicines, OKi 30 mg suppositories can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.

Gastrointestinal system: the most commonly observed adverse events are gastrointestinal in nature. Peptic ulcers, perforation or gastrointestinal bleeding may occur, sometimes fatal (see section "Precautions for use").

After administration of OKi 30 mg suppositories, the following have been reported: melena, hematemesis, ulcerative stomatitis (see section "Precautions for use").

Gastritis has been observed less frequently.

As with other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, disorders, usually transient, may occur in the gastrointestinal tract, such as epigastric pain. Only exceptionally have the following been reported: transient dyskinesia, asthenia, headache, sensation of dizziness, skin rash, allergic reactions, laryngeal edema, hematuria, hypotension, syncope, increased liver enzymes, purpura, dyspnea.

Medicines such as OKi 30 mg suppositories may be associated with a small increased risk of heart attack ("myocardial infarction") or stroke.

The following adverse reactions have been observed with the use of ketoprofen in adults:

Blood and lymphatic system disorders

thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, hemorrhagic anemia, bone marrow failure

Immune system disorders

anaphylactic reactions (including shock)

Psychiatric disorders

mood changes

Nervous system disorders

headache, dizziness, drowsiness, paresthesia, convulsions, dysgeusia

Eye disorders

blurred vision (see "Precautions for use")

Ear and labyrinth disorders

tinnitus

Cardiac disorders

heart failure

Vascular disorders

Hypertension, vasodilation

Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders

asthma, bronchospasm (especially in patients with confirmed hypersensitivity to acetylsalicylic acid and other NSAIDs), rhinitis.

Gastrointestinal disorders

dyspepsia, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, constipation, diarrhea, gastritis, flatulence, stomatitis, peptic ulcer, gastrointestinal bleeding and perforation, exacerbation of colitis and Crohn’s disease.

Hepatobiliary disorders

hepatitis, increased transaminases, elevated serum bilirubin levels due to liver disorders

Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders

rash, pruritus, photosensitivity reactions, alopecia, urticaria, angioedema, bullous eruptions including Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis

Renal and urinary disorders:

acute renal failure, tubulo-interstitial nephritis, nephritic syndrome, abnormalities in renal function tests

General disorders and administration site conditions

edema, fatigue

Investigations

Weight increased

Clinical studies and epidemiological data suggest that the use of some NSAIDs (particularly at high doses and for long periods of treatment) may be associated with an increased risk of arterial thrombotic events (for example myocardial infarction and stroke) (see "Precautions for use").

Compliance with the instructions contained in the package leaflet reduces the risk of side effects.

If any of the side effects gets worse, or if you notice the appearance of any side effect not listed in this package leaflet, inform your doctor or pharmacist.

Expiry and storage
The expiry date indicated refers to the product in its intact packaging, properly stored. Store at a temperature not exceeding 25°C.

Source Package Leaflet: AIFA (Italian Medicines Agency). Content published in January 2016. The information provided may not be up to date.
To access the most updated version, it is recommended to access the AIFA (Italian Medicines Agency) website. Disclaimer and useful information.
